CNV#44025: [Doc] Document how to select the default VolumeSnapshotClass (#92884)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/virt-customizing-storage-profile-default-cloning-strategy.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/storage/virt-configuring-storage-profile.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-customizing-storage-profile-default-cloning-strategy_{context}"]

> = Setting a default cloning strategy by using a storage profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Setting a default cloning strategy using a storage profile
```

Author: Our CNV docs tend to use "by using the web console." There are many instances of it in the content.

> You can use storage profiles to set a default cloning method for a storage class, creating a _cloning strategy_. Setting cloning strategies can be helpful, for example, if your storage vendor only supports certain cloning methods. It also allows you to select a method that limits resource usage or maximizes performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use storage profiles to set a default cloning method for a storage class by creating a _cloning strategy_. Setting cloning strategies can be helpful, for example, if your storage vendor only supports certain cloning methods. It also allows you to select a method that limits resource usage or maximizes performance.
```

Author: Done

> You can use storage profiles to set a default cloning method for a storage class, creating a _cloning strategy_. Setting cloning strategies can be helpful, for example, if your storage vendor only supports certain cloning methods. It also allows you to select a method that limits resource usage or maximizes performance.

Reviewer: Is there a reason cloning strategy is italicized here?

Author: I don't know, as I didn't update that content. I've removed the italics.

> Cloning strategies can be specified by setting the `cloneStrategy` attribute in a storage profile to one of these values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloning strategies are specified by setting the `cloneStrategy` attribute in a storage profile to one of the following values:
```
I think "are" might be better here.

Author: Done

> * `snapshot` is used by default when snapshots are configured. The CDI will use the snapshot method if it recognizes the storage provider and the provider supports Container Storage Interface (CSI) snapshots. This cloning strategy uses a temporary volume snapshot to clone the volume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `snapshot` is used by default when snapshots are configured. The Containerized Data Importer (CDI) will use the snapshot method if it recognizes the storage provider and the provider supports Container Storage Interface (CSI) snapshots. This cloning strategy uses a temporary volume snapshot to clone the volume.
```
Though I am not sure about that second sentence. It seems to personify the CDI a bit.

* `copy` uses a source pod and a target pod to copy data from the source volume to the target volume. Host-assisted cloning is the least efficient method of cloning.

> * `csi-clone` uses the CSI clone API to efficiently clone an existing volume without using an interim volume snapshot. Unlike `snapshot` or `copy`, which are used by default if no storage profile is defined, CSI volume cloning is only used when you specify it in the `StorageProfile` object for the provisioner's storage class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `csi-clone` uses the CSI clone API to efficiently clone an existing volume without using an interim volume snapshot. Unlike `snapshot` or `copy`, CSI volume cloning is only used when you specify it in the `StorageProfile` object for the provisioner's storage class.
```
fluff

Author: I didn't update this content, but I do think the info in parentheses is useful.

[NOTE]
====

> You can also set clone strategies using the CLI without modifying the default `claimPropertySets` in your YAML `spec` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set clone strategies using the CLI without modifying the default `claimPropertySets` in your YAML `spec` section.
```

Author: I didn't update this content, but I've made the change.

* `snapshot` is used by default when snapshots are configured. The CDI will use the snapshot method if it recognizes the storage provider and the provider supports Container Storage Interface (CSI) snapshots. This cloning strategy uses a temporary volume snapshot to clone the volume.
* `copy` uses a source pod and a target pod to copy data from the source volume to the target volume. Host-assisted cloning is the least efficient method of cloning.
* `csi-clone` uses the CSI clone API to efficiently clone an existing volume without using an interim volume snapshot. Unlike `snapshot` or `copy`, which are used by default if no storage profile is defined, CSI volume cloning is only used when you specify it in the `StorageProfile` object for the provisioner's storage class.

[NOTE]
====
You can also set clone strategies using the CLI without modifying the default `claimPropertySets` in your YAML `spec` section.
====

.Example storage profile
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cdi.kubevirt.io/v1beta1
kind: StorageProfile
metadata:
  name: <provisioner_class>
# ...
spec:
  claimPropertySets:
  - accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce <1>

>     volumeMode:
>       Filesystem <2>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    volumeMode: Filesystem <2>
```

Author: Done!
